federalist number 11
the utility of the union in respect to
commercial relations
and a navy for the independent journal
hamilton to the people of the state of
new york
the importance of the union in a
commercial light is one of those points
about which there is least room to
entertain a difference of opinion and
which has in fact commanded the most
general ascent of men who have any
acquaintance with the subject
this applies as well to our intercourse
with foreign countries
as with each other there are appearances
to authorize a supposition that the
adventurous spirit which distinguishes
the commercial character of america
has already excited uneasy sensations in
several of the maritime powers of europe
they seem to be apprehensive of our too
great interference in that carrying
trade which is the support of their
navigation and the foundation of their
naval strength
those of them which have colonies in
america look forward to what this
country is capable
of becoming with painful solicitude they
foresee the dangers that may threaten
their american dominions from the
neighborhood of states which have all
the dispositions and would possess
all the means requisite to the creation
of a powerful marine
impressions of this kind will naturally
indicate the policy of fostering
divisions among us
and of depriving us as far as possible
of an active commerce in our own bottoms
this would answer the threefold purpose
of preventing our interference in their
navigation
of monopolizing the profits of our trade
and of clipping the wings by which we
might soar to a dangerous greatness
did not prudence forbid the detail it
would not be difficult to trace by facts
the working of this policy to the
cabinets of ministers
if we continue united we may counteract
a policy so unfriendly to our prosperity
in a variety of ways
by prohibitory regulations extending at
the same time throughout the states
we may oblige foreign countries to bid
against each other for the privileges of
our markets
this assertion will not appear
chimerical to those who are able to
appreciate the importance of the markets
of three millions of people
increasing in rapid progression for the
most part exclusively addicted to
agriculture
and likely from local circumstances to
remain so to any manufacturing nation
and the immense difference there would
be to the trade and navigation of such a
nation
between a direct communication on its
own ships and an indirect conveyance of
its products and returns to
and from america in the ships of another
country
suppose for instance we had a government
in america capable of excluding great
britain with whom we have at present no
treaty of commerce from all our ports
what would be the probable operation of
this step upon her politics
would it not enable us to negotiate with
the fairest prospect of success
for commercial privileges of the most
valuable and extensive kind
in the dominions of that kingdom when
these questions have been
asked upon other occasions they have
received a plausible but not a solid or
satisfactory answer
it has been said that prohibitions on
our part would produce no change in the
system of britain
because she could not prosecute her
trade with us through the medium of the
dutch
who would be her immediate customers and
pay masters for those articles which
were wanted for the supply of our
markets
but would not her navigation be
materially injured by the loss of the
important advantage of being our own
carrier in that trade
would not the principal part of its
profits be intercepted by the dutch
as a compensation for their agency and
risk would not the mere circumstance of
freight occasion a considerable
deduction
would not so circuit as an intercourse
facilitate the competitions of other
nations by enhancing the price of
british commodities in our markets
and by transferring to other hands the
management of this interesting branch of
the british commerce
a mature consideration of the objects
suggested by these questions will
justify a belief that the real
disadvantages to britain from such a
state of things
conspiring with the pre-possessions of a
great part of the nation in favor of the
american trade
and with the importunities of the west
india islands would produce a relaxation
in her prison system and would let us
into the enjoyment of privileges in the
markets of those islands elsewhere
from which our trade would derive the
most substantial benefits
such a point gained from the british
government and which could not be
expected without an equivalent in
exemptions and immunities in our markets
would be likely to have a correspondent
effect on the conduct of other nations
who would not be inclined to see
themselves altogether supplanted in our
trade
a further resource for influencing the
conduct of european nations toward us in
this respect
would arise from the establishment of a
federal navy there can be no doubt that
the continuance of the union under an
efficient government would put it in our
power
at a period not very distant to create a
navy which if it could not vie with
those of the great maritime powers
would at least be of respectable weight
if thrown into the scale of either of
two contending parties
this would be more peculiarly the case
in relation to operations in the west
indies
a few ships of the line sent opportunity
to the reinforcement of either side
would often be sufficient to decide the
fate of a campaign on the event of which
interests of the greatest magnitude were
suspended our position
is in this respect a most commanding one
and if to this consideration we add
that of the usefulness of supplies from
this country in the prosecution of
military operations in the west indies
it will readily be perceived that a
situation so favorable would enable us
to bargain with great advantage for
commercial privileges
a price would be set not only upon our
friendship but upon our neutrality
by a steady adherence to the union we
may hope air long
to become the arbiter of europe in
america and to be able to incline the
balance of european competitions in this
part of the world
as our interest may dictate but the
reverse of this eligible situation
we shall discover that the rival ships
of the parts would make them checks upon
each other and would frustrate all the
tempting advantages which nature has
kindly placed within
our reach in a state so insignificant
our commerce would be a prey to the
wanton intermeddlings of all nations at
war with each other who having nothing
to fear from us
would with little scruple or remorse
supply their wants by depredations on
our property as often as it fell in
their way
the rights of neutrality will only be
respected when they are defended by an
adequate power
a nation despicable by its weakness
forfeits even the privilege of being
neutral
under a vigorous national government the
natural strength and resources of the
country directed to a common interest
would baffle all the combinations of
european jealousy to restrain our growth
this situation would even take away the
motive to such combinations by inducing
an impracticability of success
an active commerce an extensive
navigation and a flourishing marine
would then be the offspring of moral and
physical necessity
we might defy the little arts of the
little politicians to control or vary
the irresistible and unchangeable course
of nature
but in a state of disunion these
combinations might exist and might
operate with success
it would be in the power of the maritime
nations availing themselves of our
universal impotence
to prescribe the conditions of our
political existence and as they have a
common interest in being our carriers
and still more in preventing our
becoming theirs
they would in all probability combine to
embarrass our navigation in such a
manner as would in effect
destroy it and confine us to passive
commerce
we should then be compelled to content
ourselves with the first price of our
commodities
and to see the profits of our trade
snatched from us to enrich our enemies
and persecutors
that unequaled spirit of enterprise
which signalizes the genius of the
american merchants and navigators and
which is in itself an inexhaustible mine
of national wealth would be stifled and
lost
and poverty and disgrace would
overspread a country which with wisdom
might make herself the admiration and
envy of the world
there are rights of great moment to the
trade of america which are rights of the
union
i allude to the fisheries to the
navigation of the western lakes
and to that of the mississippi the
dissolution of the confederacy would
give room for delicate questions
concerning the future existence of these
rights which the interests of more
powerful partners would hardly fail to
solve to our disadvantage
the disposition of spain with regard to
the mississippi needs no comment
france and britain are concerned with us
in the fisheries and view them as the
utmost moment to their navigation
they of course would hardly remain long
indifferent to that decided mastery
of which experience has shown us to be
possessed in this valuable branch of
traffic and by which we are able to
undersell those nations in their own
markets
what more natural than that they should
be disposed to exclude from the lists
such dangerous competitors this branch
of trade
ought not to be considered as a partial
benefit all the navigating states may
in different degrees advantageously
participate in it
and under circumstances of a greater
extension of mercantile capital would
not be unlikely to do it
as a nursery of semen it now is or when
time shall have more nearly assimilated
the principles of navigation in the
several states will become
a universal resource to the
establishment of a navy
it must be indispensable to this great
national object
a navy union will contribute in various
ways
every institution will grow and flourish
in proportion to the quantity
and extent of the means concentrated
towards its formation and support
a navy of the united states as it would
embrace the resources of all
is an object far less remote than a navy
of any single state or partial
confederacy which would only embrace the
resources of a single part
it happens indeed that different
portions of the confederated america
possess each some peculiar advantage for
this essential establishment
the more southern states furnish in
greater abundance certain kinds of naval
stores
tar pitch and turpentine their wood for
the construction of ships is also of a
more solid and lasting texture
the difference in the duration of the
ships of which the navy might be
composed
if chiefly constructed of southern wood
would be of signal importance
either in the view of naval strength or
of national economy
some of the southern and of the middle
states yield a greater plenty of iron
and a better quality semen must chiefly
be drawn from the northern hive
the necessity of naval protection to
external or maritime commerce does not
require a particular elucidation
no more than the conduciveness of that
species of commerce to the prosperity of
a navy
an unrestrained intercourse between the
states themselves will advance the trade
of each by an interchange of their
respective productions
not only for the supply of reciprocal
wants at home but for exportation to
foreign markets
the veins of commerce in every part will
be replenished and will acquire
additional motion
and vigor from a free circulation of the
commodities of every part
commercial enterprise will have much
greater scope from the diversity in the
productions of different states
when the staple of one fails from a bad
harvest or unproductive crop
it can call to its aid the staple of
another the variety
not less than the value of products for
exportation contributes to the activity
of foreign commerce
it can be conducted upon much better
terms with a large number of materials
of a given value than with a small
number of materials of the same value
arising from the competitions of trade
and from the fluctations of markets
particular articles may be in great
demand at certain periods
and unsalable at others but if there be
a variety of articles it can scarcely
happen that they should
all be at one time in the latter
predicament and on this account the
operations of a merchant would be less
liable to any considerable obstruction
or stagnation
the speculative traitor will at once
perceive the force of these observations
and will acknowledge that the aggregate
balance of the commerce of the united
states would bid fair to be much more
favorable than that of the 13 states
without union or with partial unions
it may perhaps be replied to this that
whether the states are united or
disunited there would still be
an intimate intercourse between them
which would answer the same ends
this intercourse would be fettered
interrupted and narrowed by a
multiplicity of causes
which in the course of these papers have
been amply detailed
a unity of commercial as well as
political interests
can only result from a unity of
government
there are other points of view in which
this subject might be placed of a
striking
and animating kind but they would lead
us too far into the regions of futurity
and would involve topics not
proper for a newspaper discussion i
shall briefly observe that our situation
invites and our interests prompt us to
aim at an ascendant in the system of
american affairs
the world may politically as well as
geographically be divided into four
parts
each having a distinct set of interests
unhappily for the other three
europe by her arms and by her
negotiations by force and by fraud has
in different degrees extended her
dominion over them all
africa asia and america have
successfully felt her dominion
the superiority she has long maintained
has tempted her to plume herself as the
mistress of the world
and to consider the rest of mankind as
created for her benefit
men admired as profound philosophers
have in direct terms attributed to her
inhabitants of physical superiority and
have gravely asserted that all animals
and with them the human species
degenerate in america
that even dogs cease to bark after
having breathed a while in our
atmosphere
researcher philosophic sir lay american
facts have too long supported these
arrogant pretensions of the europeans
it belongs to us to vindicate the honor
of the human race and to teach that
assuming brother moderation
union will enable us to do it this union
will add another victim to his triumphs
let americans disdain to be the
instruments of european greatness
let the 13 states bound together in a
strict and indissoluble union
concur in erecting one great american
system superior to the control of
all transatlantic force or influence and
able to dictate the terms of the
connection
between the old and new world
publius